<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />


    


    <title>19. Precursor Chemicals </title>
    
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
 </head>
<body>
<h2>19. Precursor Chemicals</h2>

<p>Nearly every drug requires precursor chemicals in their manufacture. These potentially hazardous chemicals are widely used in legitimate industries, but can be diverted to make drugs, therefore it is important to determine:</p>

<p>1) the specific precursor found, and</p>

<p>2) whether the person or company is authorized to handle that precursor.</p>

<p>Your national regulatory agency licences companies authorized to handle precursors.</p>

<p>Many substances look like controlled precursors but legitimate precursors and other chemicals will be marked with an appropriate label identifying potential hazards. Traffickers often mis-declare, mis-label or remove labels from containers making identification difficult — never assume the substance is what a suspect declares. A field test kit is a good way to indicate the presence of a controlled precursor.</p>

<p>Always use gloves, masks and safety goggles when handling chemicals.</p>

<p>Compressed gas</p>

<p>Explosive</p>

<p>Irritant</p>

<p>Corrosive</p>

<p>Frammable</p>

<p>Oxidizing</p>

<p>Environmentally damaging</p>

<p>Health hazard</p>

<p>Toxic</p>

<p>(add icons)</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p>There are 24 precursors currently under international control split into higher (Table I) and lower (Table II) levels of control. The list of chemicals named is not exhaustive.</p>

<p>(add pictures for all precursors)</p>

<p><strong>Table I (Essential Precursors)</strong></p>

<p>1-Phenyl-2-propanone (P-2-P)</p>

<p>Vicious, colorless or pale yellow liquid used in the pharmaceutical industry for legitimate manufacture of amphetamines.</p>

<p>Illicit use: amphetamine / methamphetamine</p>

<p>Other names: Benzyl methyl ketone (BMK)</p>

<p>HS code: 2914 31 00</p>

<p>CAS No.: 103-79-7</p>

<p>3,4-Methylenedioxyphenyl-2- propanone (3,4-MDP-2-P)</p>

<p>A colorless or pale yellow liquid with an odor of aniseed, with almost no known legitimate uses. Illicit use: MDMA (ecstasy)</p>

<p>Other names: Piperonyl methyl ketone (PMK)</p>

<p>HS code: 2932 92 00</p>

<p>CAS No.: 4676-39-5</p>

<p>Acetic anhydride</p>

<p>A colorless liquid with a very strong vinegar odor, used widely in the manufacture of cellulose acetate, aspirin, brake fluids, dyes and explosives, and in textile bleaching and metal polishing.</p>

<p>Illicit use: heroin and amphetamine/ methamphetamine Other names: Acetyl acetate</p>

<p>HS code: 2915 24 00</p>

<p>CAS No.: 108-24-7</p>

<p>alpha-Phenylacetoacetonitrile (APAAN)</p>

<p>A white to pale yellow crystalline powder with a slight vague smell of bitter almonds, which has no known legitimate use.</p>

<p>Illicit use: amphetamine / methamphetamine</p>

<p>Other names: 3-oxo-2- phenylbutanenitrile</p>

<p>HS code: 2926 40</p>

<p>CAS No.: 4468-48-8</p>

<p>Ephedrine</p>

<p>A colorless, sometimes white orange yellow fine crystal soapy to the touch, used in herbal supplements.</p>

<p>Illicit use: methamphetamine Other names: 2-(Methylamino)-1-phenyl-1-propanol</p>

<p>HS code: 2939 41 00 CAS</p>

<p>No.: 299-42-3 50-98-6</p>

<p>Herbal supplements containing ephedrine can be used to make methamphetamine.</p>

<p>Ergometrine</p>

<p>Colorless crystals or needles which turn brown when exposed to humidity or light, used in migraine treatment and during child birth (labor) in extremely small amounts.</p>

<p>Illicit use: LSD (Lysergic acid diethylamide)</p>

<p>Other names: ergonovine, lysergic acid, 2-propanolamide</p>

<p>HS code: 2939 61 00</p>

<p>CAS No.: 60-79-7</p>

<p>Ergotamine</p>

<p>Colorless crystals or needles which turn brown when exposed to humidity or light, used in migraine treatment and during childbirth (labor) in extremely small amounts.</p>

<p>Illicit use: LSD (Lysergic acid diethylamide)</p>

<p>Other names: Cafergot®, Ergomar®</p>

<p>HS code: 2939 62 00</p>

<p>CAS No.: 113-15-5</p>

<p>Isosafrole</p>

<p>Vicious, colorless or pale yellow liquid with an odor of aniseed, used in the perfume industry and for manufacture of piperonal.</p>

<p>Illicit use: MDMA (ecstasy)</p>

<p>Other names: 5-(Prop-1-enyl)benzo[d] [1,3]dioxole</p>

<p>HS code: 2932 91 00</p>

<p>CAS No.: 120-58-1</p>

<p>Lysergic acid</p>

<p>White crystals or crystalline powder used in organic synthesis and medical research in very small amounts.</p>

<p>Illicit use: LSD (Lysergic acid diethylamide)</p>

<p>Other names: 7-Methyl-4,6,6a,7,8,9- hexahydroindolo[4,3-fg]quinoline9-carboxylic acid</p>

<p>HS code: 2939 63 00</p>

<p>CAS No.: 82-58-6</p>

<p>N-Acetylanthranilic acid</p>

<p>A fine colorless or white crystalline powder, used in the manufacture of pharmaceutical products, plastics and in fine chemistry</p>

<p>Illicit use: methaqualone</p>

<p>Other names: 2-acetamidobenzoic acid</p>

<p>HS code: 2924 23 00</p>

<p>CAS No.: 89-52-1</p>

<p>Norephedrine</p>

<p>White crystals with a faint odor of benzoic acid, used in the manufacture of nasal decongestants and appetite suppressants. Illicit use: amphetamine</p>

<p>Other names: Phenylpropanolamine</p>

<p>HS code: 2939 49 00</p>

<p>CAS No.: 14838-15-4</p>

<p>Phenylacetic acid (PAA)</p>

<p>A white to yellow powder with a strong unpleasant sweat or urine odor, used in penicillin manufacture, the flavoring and perfume industry and cleaning solutions.</p>

<p>Illicit use: amphetamine, methamphetamine and 1-Phenyl-2- propanone (P-2-P)</p>

<p>Other names: alpha-toluic acid</p>

<p>HS code: 2916 34 00</p>

<p>CAS No.: 103-82-2</p>

<p>Piperonal</p>

<p>Sparkling colorless needle-shaped crystals with an odor of vanilla and cherry, used in organic synthesis, and the perfume, flavoring and pesticide industries.</p>

<p>Illicit use: MDMA (ecstasy)</p>

<p>Other names: Heliotropin</p>

<p>HS code: 2932 93 00</p>

<p>CAS No.: 120-57-0</p>

<p>Potassium permanganate</p>

<p>Odorless dark violet crystals with a metallic blue sparkle, commonly used in bleaching, disinfectants, anti-bacterial and in water purification.</p>

<p>Illicit use: cocaine, methcathinone</p>

<p>Other names: Chameleon mineral, Cairox®</p>

<p>HS code: 2841 61 00</p>

<p>CAS No.: 7722-64-7</p>

<p>Pseudoephedrine</p>

<p>Odorless white crystalline powder or needle-shaped crystals, used in cold medicines.</p>

<p>Illicit use: methamphetamine</p>

<p>Other names: 2-methylamino-1-phenylpropan-1-ol, Actifed®, Sudafed®</p>

<p>HS code: 2939 42 00</p>

<p>CAS No.: 90-82-4 345-78-8</p>

<p>Cold medicines containing pseudoephedrine can be used to make methamphetamine. Encountering lots of cold medicine tablets is a sign of precursor trafficking.</p>

<p>Safrole</p>

<p>Colorless or slightly yellow liquid or crystals with a pleasant candylike odor, used in the perfume and flavoring (cherry and vanilla) industries and for manufacture of piperonal.</p>

<p>Illicit use: MDMA (ecstasy) and piperonal</p>

<p>Other names: 5-(2-propenyl)-1,3- benzodioxole</p>

<p>HS code: 2932 94 00</p>

<p>CAS No.: 94-59-7</p>

<p>The substance is often found as oils rich in safrole, such as sassafras oil.</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p><strong>Table II (Primarily Acids and Solvents)</strong></p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p>Acetone</p>

<p>Very fluid clear colorless volatile liquid with a sharp, faintly aromatic odor, used as a common solvent used for manufacture of lubricants, plastics and paints.</p>

<p>Illicit use: amphetamines, cocaine, heroin, LSD, methaqualone</p>

<p>Other names: 2-propanone</p>

<p>HS code: 2914 11 00</p>

<p>CAS No.: 67-64-1</p>

<p>Anthranilic acid A white to pale yellow crystalline powder, used in the manufacture of dyes, perfumes and insect repellent. Illicit use: methaqualone Other names: 2-aminobenzoic acid HS code: 2922 43 00 CAS No.: 118-92-3</p>

<p>Ethyl ether</p>

<p>Very fluid colorless volatile liquid with a highly characteristic strong irritating odor, used in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries to extract oils, and in the manufacture of ammunition, plastics and perfumes.</p>

<p>Illicit use: Solvent used in most drug manufacture</p>

<p>names: Ethoxyethane, diethyl ether</p>

<p>HS code: 2909 11 00</p>

<p>CAS No.: 60-29-7</p>

<p>Hydrochloric acid</p>

<p>A clear colorless to pale yellow liquid with a strong acrid pungent odor, used in the manufacture of chlorides and hydrochlorides.</p>

<p>Illicit use: Acid used in all drug manufacture</p>

<p>Other names: Muriatic acid</p>

<p>HS code: 2806 10 00</p>

<p>CAS No.: 7647-01-0</p>

<p>Methyl ethyl ketone (MEK)</p>

<p>A clear colorless liquid with a sharp acetone odor, used in the manufacture of solvents and for degreasing.</p>

<p>Illicit use: heroin, cocaine</p>

<p>Other names: Butanone</p>

<p>HS code: 2914 12 00</p>

<p>CAS No.: 78-93-3</p>

<p>Piperidine</p>

<p>A clear colorless liquid with a strong peppery or ammonia odor, used in pharmaceutical industry for anaesthetics and analgesics and in the manufacture of rubber and plastics.</p>

<p>Illicit use: phencyclidine (PCP)</p>

<p>Other names: Hexahydropyridine, azacyclohexane</p>

<p>HS code: 2933 32 00</p>

<p>CAS No. 110-89-4</p>

<p>Sulphuric acid</p>

<p>A clear viscous, colorless liquid, commonly used in the manufacture fertilizers, industrial explosives, dyes, paper, cleaning agents and batteries.</p>

<p>Illicit use: morphine, cocaine, amphetamines</p>

<p>Other names: Sulfuric acid</p>

<p>HS code: 2807 00</p>

<p>CAS No.: 7664-93-9</p>

<p>Toluene</p>

<p>A clear colorless liquid with a strong benzene odor, used as is a common industrial solvent in the manufacture of benzaldehydes, explosives, dyes and coatings.</p>

<p>Illicit use: amphetamines, cocaine, methaqualone</p>

<p>Other names: Methylbenzene</p>

<p>HS code: 2902 30</p>

<p>CAS No.: 108-88-3</p>


</body></html>