<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />


    


    <title>7. Assessing Risks </title>
    
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
 </head>
<body>
<h2>7. Assessing Risks</h2>

<p>Address potential risks before commencing your operation in order to:</p>

<ul>
	<li>protect you and your colleagues from harm,</li>
	<li>ensure the safety of any bystanders,</li>
	<li>ensure the safety of your suspects, and</li>
	<li>ensure that your investigation is not hindered.</li>
</ul>

<p>For drug and precursor trafficking cases, consider the following:</p>

<ul>
	<li>Is anyone in immediate danger?</li>
	<li>Are the substances labelled or otherwise known?</li>
	<li>Are the substances harmful or toxic, and if so how should they safely be handled, stored or transported?</li>
	<li>Are the substances flammable or explosive, and if so how should they be safely handled, stored or transported?</li>
	<li>Is the location an illicit drug manufacturing laboratory with a potential for fire or explosion?</li>
</ul>

<p>Precursors and other chemicals can be transported in unlabelled or wrongly labelled containers. If you are suspicious about the type of chemical being transported seek assistance from suitably trained officers or the fire brigade.</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p>When planning an operation, complete a risk assessment table to prioritize which risks need the greatest attention and what measures can be taken to reduce the levels of the risks.</p>

<ol>
	<li>What is the hazard?</li>
	<li>What is the likelihood of the hazard causing harm? low (1) to high (10)</li>
	<li>How severe are the consequences? low (1) to high (10)</li>
	<li>What is the greatness of the risk? (Multiply the LIKELIHOOD by the SEVERITY)</li>
	<li>How can the risks be mitigated?</li>
</ol>


</body></html>