<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />


    <title>18. Drugs </title>

    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h2>18. Drugs</h2>

    <p>Many substances look like controlled drugs but are in fact everyday products. Traffickers will often describe
        drugs by their street names, which vary from country to country. A field test kit is a good way to indicate the
        presence of a controlled drug. There are 244 drugs currently under international control. Below is a partial
        list of commonly trafficked drugs under international control:</p>

    <p>&#160;</p>

    <p><strong>Cannabis</strong></p>

    <p>Cannabis is found naturally as plant leaf/ stem/ bud material and brown resin (hashish) forms.</p>

    <p><strong>Street names:</strong> Pot, Marijuana, Laddu, Ganja, Grass, Green, Hashish, Weed, Bud, Smoke, Reefer,
        Mary Jane, Skunk.</p>

    <p>(add pictures)</p>

    <p>&#160;</p>

    <p><strong>Opium</strong></p>

    <p>Opium is the dried latex obtained from the opium poppy. It is a sticky brown resin from which morphine and
        heroin are produced.</p>

    <p><strong>Street names:</strong> When-shee, Yen Shee Suey, Chinese Molasses, Ah-pen-yen, Choi.</p>

    <p>(add pictures)</p>

    <p>&#160;</p>

    <p><strong>Heroin</strong></p>

    <p>Heroin is made from morphine, which is extracted from the opium poppy. In its purest form, it is a fine white
        powder, but more often it is rusty grey, brown or black in color.</p>

    <p><strong>Street names:</strong> China Red, China White, Horse, Hurricane, H, Gear, Smack, Tar or Chiva</p>

    <p>(add pictures)</p>

    <p>Numerous other drugs are under domestic controls in your country</p>

    <p>&#160;</p>

    <p><strong>Methamphetamine</strong></p>

    <p>Methamphetamine is a synthetically manufactured stimulant. It is found as glass-like shards (crystal), white or
        offwhite powder or in tablet form (yaba).</p>

    <p><strong>Street names:</strong> (crystal) Batak, Bato, Yaaba, Yama, Ya Ba, Crack, Ice, Crystal, Philopon,
        Batuwhore, Batu Kilat, Shabu, Chakk, Ma Chakk, Meth.</p>

    <p>(add pictures)</p>

    <p>&#160;</p>

    <p><strong>MDMA</strong> (3,4-methylenedioxy-methamphetamine or Ecstasy)</p>

    <p>MDMA is a synthetically manufactured drug. It is often found in brightly colored powder and tablet forms.</p>

    <p><strong>Street names:</strong> E, Ecky, X, Candy, Pills, Kbai, Ecstasy, ya-E, Seik kway say, ya Love, Shaking
        Pill, Pingers.</p>

    <p>(add pictures)</p>

    <p>&#160;</p>

    <p><strong>Cocaine</strong></p>

    <p>Cocaine is derived from extracts of the coca bush. Its purest form is a fine white powder, but can also be found
        in freebase and rock-like (crack) forms.</p>

    <p><strong>Street names:</strong> Coke, Blow, Crack, Yo, Yaya, Yeah Oh, Coco, Snow, Big C, Flake, Koks, Lady.</p>

    <p>(add pictures)</p>

    <p>&#160;</p>

    <p>Numerous other drugs are under domestic controls in your country.</p>

    <p>&#160;</p>


</body>

</html>