<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />


    <title>20. Laboratory Equipment </title>

    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h2>20. Laboratory Equipment</h2>

    <p>Clandestine laboratories require specialized equipment in the illicit manufacture of drugs. There are many
        different types and styles of equipment and officers should familiarize themselves with the more commonly
        encountered pieces, including:</p>

    <ul>
        <li>Beakers and glassware</li>
        <li>Plastic or metal drums</li>
        <li>Large capacity flasks</li>
        <li>Electro-thermal heating mantles</li>
        <li>Pressure reaction vessels</li>
        <li>Pill presses/ tableting machines</li>
        <li>Punches and dies</li>
    </ul>

    <p>When encountering laboratory equipment, always question whether it makes sense for the owner to possess such
        equipment. If you are unsure, contact your regulatory agency.</p>

    <p>&#160;</p>

    <p>Use extreme caution when entering a suspected laboratory— seek assistance from suitably trained officers or the
        fire brigade.</p>

    <p>&#160;</p>

    <p>(incert Pictures)</p>

    <p>Drug laboratory (small, garage)</p>

    <p>Drug laboratory (large, warehouse)</p>

    <p>Tablet punches</p>

    <p>Tableting machine (large)</p>

    <p>Glassware and heating mantle</p>

    <p>Heroin laboratory (indoor, small)</p>

    <p>&#160;</p>

    <p>As you carry out your duties, it is important that you are on the look out for laboratory equipment, know how to
        detect their presence and what to do when you have located a clandestine laboratory.</p>

    <p>Laboratory equipment can be located for illicit drug manufacture just about anywhere, including a small house or
        apartment, a garage, in warehouse, in a factory, on a farm or in a remote jungle.</p>

    <p>&#160;</p>

    <p>If you see a vehicle with such equipment and there is no legitimate reason for transporting this equipment, then
        you should be suspicious.</p>

    <p>&#160;</p>

    <p>There are signs that laboratory equipment may be being used to make illicit drugs. The process leaves physical
        signs such as:</p>

    <ul>
        <li>The unusual need for large water tanks on the property</li>
        <li>Chemical wastes dumped in the ground or in nearby streams</li>
        <li>The unusual need for high amounts of electricity at buildings</li>
        <li>Empty drums, cans, bottles or other chemical containers on the property</li>
        <li>Residents never putting trash out or instead burning it</li>
        <li>Specially constructed chimneys to get rid of strong odors</li>
        <li>Strong odors such as solvents emanating from a location</li>
    </ul>

    <p>Remember, there are risks associated when unknown chemicals are dumped. Only use properly trained and equipped
        personnel to search a chemical dumpsite or suspected drug laboratory.</p>

    <p>&#160;</p>


</body>

</html>