<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />


    


    <title>17. Interviewing Suspects </title>
    
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
 </head>
<body>
<h2>17. Interviewing Suspects</h2>

<p><strong>When interviewing suspects:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li>Have two officers present</li>
	<li>One officer should take notes</li>
	<li>Record the interview when possible</li>
	<li>Consider the legal rights and welfare of the suspect</li>
	<li>Consider the need for an interpreter</li>
	<li>If the suspect is a juvenile, consider the need for a social worker or other authorised support person</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Follow this PEACE system for interviewing the suspect:</strong></p>

<table>
	<thead>
		<tr>
			<th scope="col">STEP</th>
			<th scope="col">DESCRIPTION</th>
		</tr>
	</thead>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td>Planning</td>
			<td>Think about the evidence you have or need and the questions you plan to ask. Write down your plan and discuss it with your colleagues or supervisor.</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p>Engage and Explain</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p>Introduce yourself, and allow the suspect to introduce himself/herself. Assess his/her welfare: under the influence of drugs or alcohol, in need of sleep? Try establishing a rapport with the suspect. Explain the purpose of the interview.</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>Account</td>
			<td>
			<p>Obtain a complete account of the event. Ask open ended questions to allow the suspect to give a detailed account. Clarify the suspect’s answers and challenge elements of the account. Ask colleagues if they have any questions of the suspect.</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>Closure</td>
			<td>
			<p>Summarise what has happened. Explain the next steps.</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>Evaluation</td>
			<td>
			<p>With your colleague, assess the interview in context with the other evidence. Decide your next steps.</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p>&#160;</p>

<h3>Sample Interview Questions For Suspected Traffickers:</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Who owns the drugs/ precursors we found?</li>
	<li>What substance is it?</li>
	<li>Where specifically did you get the substance?</li>
	<li>What were you going to do with the substance?</li>
	<li>Who packaged them that way?</li>
	<li>How much did you pay for the substance?</li>
	<li>How much were you going to sell them for?</li>
	<li>How do you determine the weight of the substance?</li>
	<li>What other substances do you sell?</li>
	<li>How much do you sell?</li>
	<li>Who do you sell the drugs/ precursors to?</li>
	<li>How long have you done this?</li>
	<li>How do you record your sales?</li>
	<li>How many people work for you (or who do you work for)?</li>
	<li>How do you communicate with these people?</li>
	<li>How many mobile telephones do you use to conduct your business (and what are the numbers of your telephones)?</li>
	<li>Do you use a code when you talk about the substances?</li>
	<li>If you use a code what are the code words you use?</li>
</ul>

<h3>Sample Interview Questions For couriers: (Drugs or precursors)</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Who gave you the substance?</li>
	<li>When and where did they give you them?</li>
	<li>What instructions did they give you in relation to transporting the substance?</li>
	<li>How do you communicate with them?</li>
	<li>Who do you have to give the substance to?</li>
	<li>Where and when will this happen?</li>
	<li>How will you know what the person meeting you will look like?</li>
	<li>How much are you being paid to carry the substance?</li>
	<li>How are you going to be paid?</li>
	<li>Who booked your transportation? Where? When?</li>
</ul>

<h3>Sample Interview Questions For couriers: (Precursors only)</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Where did you obtain the precursors?</li>
	<li>Who is the consignor of the precursors?</li>
	<li>What is their address/ phone number?</li>
	<li>Who is the consignee of the precursors?</li>
	<li>What is their address/phone number?</li>
	<li>Which company are the precursors from?</li>
	<li>What was written on the packaging?</li>
	<li>Do you have an invoice or bill of lading?</li>
</ul>

<p>Try to build up a complete picture of the suspect’s involvement in the crime and who the suspect’s associates are.</p>

<p>&#160;</p>


</body></html>